Create guide create-jira-issue-from-newrelic.md (#2170)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/create-jira-issue-from-newrelic.md

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Report a bug from New Relic alert

## Overview
This guide will help you implement a self-service action in Port that allows you to report bugs in Jira based on New Relic alert in one click, ensuring prompt issue resolution and improving overall platform reliability.

You can implement this action in two ways:
1. **Synced webhooks**: A simpler approach that directly interacts with Jira's API through Port, ideal for quick implementation and minimal setup.
2. **GitHub workflow**: A more flexible approach that allows for complex workflows and custom logic, suitable for teams that want to maintain their automation in Git.

## Prerequisites

- Complete the [onboarding process](/getting-started/overview).
- Access to your Jira organization with permissions to create issues.
- [Port's GitHub app](https://github.com/apps/getport-io) installed (required for GitHub Actions implementation).
- [Jira API token](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/) with permissions to create new issues.

## Set up data model

> - If you haven't installed the [Jira integration](https://www.notion.so/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/project-management/jira/), you'll need to create a blueprint for Jira issues. However we highly recommend you install the Jira integration to have these automatically set up for you.
> - If you haven't installed the [New Relic integration](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/apm-alerting/newrelic), you'll need to create a blueprint for New Relic Alerts. However we highly recommend you install the New Relic integration to have these automatically set up for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have installed Port's [Jira integration](https://www.notion.so/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/project-management/jira/) and [New Relic integration](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/apm-alerting/newrelic), the relevant blueprints will be automatically created in your portal.

If you chose not to install the integrations, you will need to create the blueprints manually:
```

                }
              },
              "reportWorkflowStatus": true
            },
            "requiredApproval": false
          }
          ```

          </details>

      5. Click `Save`.

      Now you should see the `Report a bug from New Relic (gitHub actions)` action in the self-service page. 🎉

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Let's test it!

1. Head to the [self-service page](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) of your portal

2. Choose either the GitHub workflow or webhook implementation:
   - For webhook: Click on `Report a bug from New Relic alert (Webhook)`
   - For GitHub workflow: Click on `Report a bug from New Relic alert (GitHub actions)`

3. Fill in the bug details:
   - Select the New Relic alert that will trigger the creation of the Jira bug
   - Select the Jira project where the bug will be created

4. Click on `Execute`

5. Done! wait for the bug to be created in Jira

## More Self Service Jira Actions Examples
- [Open Jira issues with automatic labels](https://docs.port.io/guides/all/open-jira-issue-with-automatic-label)
- [Change status and assignee of Jira tickets](https://docs.port.io/guides/all/change-status-and-assignee-of-jira-ticket)

> - [Open/close JIRA issues for entities with violated scorecard rules](https://docs.port.io/promote-scorecards/manage-using-3rd-party-apps/jira)

Reviewer: you can remove this section

Author: Done
